Mr and Mrs Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.

Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large moustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbours. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.

On his journey to work, Vernon Dursley encounters a series of peculiar occurrences: a cat on Privet Drive seemingly scrutinising a map, alongside individuals clad in vibrant robes meandering through the streets. Attempting to disregard these anomalies, Mr Dursley encounters even more oddly dressed people during his lunch break, overhearing snippets of conversation about the Potters and their son, Harry. Remarkably, one individual approaches Mr Dursley, suggesting he ought to rejoice in the disappearance of "You-Know-Who." These events remind Vernon of the Dursleys' discomfiting secret and their deliberate ignorance of the Potters' existence. Upon returning home, Mr Dursley is greeted by news reports of unexpected shooting stars and owls flying in daylight. Previously reticent to broach the subject of the Potters with his wife, Petunia, he eventually confirms that their nephew's name is indeed Harry. That night, Vernon Dursley experiences restless sleep.

In the late hours, an enigmatic figure, Albus Dumbledore, arrives at Privet Drive. Utilising a device known as a Put-Outer, he dims all the street lamps. Addressing the map-reading cat, who reveals herself to be Professor McGonagall, a witch, they converse about the recent celebrations causing a stir among the non-magical community, or "Muggles." Dumbledore divulges the tragic news of James and Lily Potter's murder by the dark wizard, Lord Voldemort, the previous night (October 31). Voldemort's attempt to kill their one-year-old son, Harry, somehow led to the dark lord's downfall. Voldemort, out of fear, is often referred to as "You-Know-Who." Dumbledore informs that Hagrid is en route to Privet Drive with Harry.

Shortly thereafter, the colossal Hagrid arrives aboard a flying motorbike, cradling a snugly bundled Harry. Dumbledore positions the infant on the doorstep of Number Four with a letter for Petunia Dursley. McGonagall expresses her concern over Harry's future with the Dursleys, fearing for a child of his renown. Following the placement of Harry, Hagrid remounts his motorbike, McGonagall reverts to her cat form, and Dumbledore restores the streetlights, with all three departing silently into the night.